As part of my self-education journey, I decided to delve into "The Pragmatic Programmer" by David Thomas and Andrew Hunt. If you haven't heard of it, it is one of the more influential books in the software world, as it covers many important truths in clean coding, productivity, and more. Even the first chapter is loaded with incredible insights, one of which is "Broken Window Theory".

The basis of this idea comes from inner cities, where there is often a great disparity between the maintenance of buildings - some are relatively well maintained, while some have seen much better days. Researchers found that this difference is often caused by the namesake of this theory: a broken window. A singular window left unrepaired signals to the world that the building can be further defiled, resulting in a snowballing decline.

This theory is applicable to many parts of life. If my room is clean, it'll usually stay clean; however, as soon as one item is left out of place, the pristineness is ruined, and I proceed to slowly trash my place. The same thing happened with my remote classes last semester: I initially kept up with lectures, took a small break, then proceeded to speed-run all the material when there was a looming due date. 

In my mind, this theory says something important about human psychology. It seems we can perform extremely well while maintaining a high standard, but once that standard is ruined we quickly plummet to the depths. This is one of the reasons I love the two day rule for maintaining habits; you're less likely to give up on a habit, as the standard you maintain is more forgiving.

So what does this have to do with programming? Well, a single poorly-implemented chunk of code is our broken window in this case. The book stresses that you shouldn't leave broken windows in your code. All it takes is one bad component in an otherwise clean system to send it into a slow but inevitable decline. When contributing, developers will maintain the current standard, and that singular "broken window" will eventually spawn children of its own.

While completely repairing the window is of course ideal, know that this isn't quite feasible. You should always try to signal the need for repair (via commenting it out, pseudo-implementation, etc.) as soon as possible, so that other developers (or even you) don't make similar mistakes. Think of this as temporarily boarding up the window - it signals that there is still effort to maintain your building. Make sure to get back to that window once enough time arises though, as a building with multiple boarded up windows is on the road of decline as well.