Howdy! My name's Rob, and I'm just getting started on my journey as a developer. This site is a bit devoid of content and basic functionality, but we'll get there eventually. I aim for this website to be a showcase of anything and everything I've been working on for the past few years, in an effort to be a creator rather than a consumer. It might end up being a bit... unprofessional, but I hope to use this site as a bit of a playground, as I doubt I can expand my coding capabilities with a couple of generic pages.

I started my studies at Iowa State University in 2017, pursuing a B.S. in Software Engineering and a B.A. in music. While this might be a more unconventional approach to higher education, I decided early on that music was a bit too important to me to let go.

Much of my programming experience extends from my time at Iowa State University. I have been working with Java since high school in mostly academic settings; due to this, I have plenty of experience implementing data structures and algorithms in Java. It's also my choice language for technical interviews or general competitive programming problems, which I've naturally had to spend a lot of time practicing to get remotely competent.

I started my work as a web developer at ISU's Office of Student Financial Aid. As an OSFA developer, I help create and maintain websites and applications for various offices. Given the nature of our content, most of my work is in front end (HTML, CSS, JavaScript/TypeScript, React, Angular), but I get to touch back end work (PHP, Laravel, MariaDB) just enough to call myself a full stack developer. I also get to mess around with GitLab's CI/CD pipelines on occasion, as well as a touch of Docker (thanks to the sudden shift to remote work). Our team is solely comprised of a few ISU Students, which means we have a lot of freedom to implement as we see fit. We often have to work directly with our customers to produce coherent applications, so I'm no stranger to ambiguity and autonomy.

As for my music studies, I'm primarily a voice student. I've participated in the Iowa State Singers since starting at ISU, and I've joined in a few musical and opera productions as well. I also enjoy playing electric bass and more recently piano in what remains of my free time. While many might not see the inherent value in pursuing this second facet of mine, I can say without a doubt that these studies have been instrumental (pun intended) to my growth as a developer and a person as a whole. My explorations in music let me work with a multitude of different personalities, giving me fantastic exposure to the world outside of engineering. In addition, music stretches my communication abilities, as we often discuss abstract concepts, ambiguous techniques, and emotional expression. Lastly, music has given me the all-important drive to always learn, as you can only hope to improve with an open-mind and the willingness to put in the practice.

Well, that's me in around 600 words or less. Of course, there's always more to know about a person, but I find that's best found through direct communication (or perhaps, even an interview). If you made it this far, thanks for your time! Hopefully there's a bit more to explore on this website by the time you're reading this.